=pod

=head1 NAME

ARC4_set_key, ARC4 - ARC4 encryption

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/arc4.h>

 void ARC4_set_key(ARC4_KEY *key, int len, const unsigned char *data);

 void ARC4(ARC4_KEY *key, unsigned long len, const unsigned char *indata,
          unsigned char *outdata);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This library implements the Alleged-RC4 cipher, which is described for
example in I<Applied Cryptography>.  It is believed to be compatible
with RC4[TM], a proprietary cipher of RSA Security Inc.

ARC4 is a stream cipher with variable key length.  Typically, 128 bit
(16 byte) keys are used for strong encryption, but shorter insecure
key sizes have been widely used due to export restrictions.

ARC4 consists of a key setup phase and the actual encryption or
decryption phase.

ARC4_set_key() sets up the B<ARC4_KEY> B<key> using the B<len> bytes long
key at B<data>.

ARC4() encrypts or decrypts the B<len> bytes of data at B<indata> using
B<key> and places the result at B<outdata>.  Repeated ARC4() calls with
the same B<key> yield a continuous key stream.

Since ARC4 is a stream cipher (the input is XORed with a pseudo-random
key stream to produce the output), decryption uses the same function
calls as encryption.

Applications should use the higher level functions
L<EVP_EncryptInit(3)|EVP_EncryptInit(3)>
etc. instead of calling the ARC4 functions directly.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ARC4_set_key() and ARC4() do not return values.

=head1 NOTE

Certain conditions have to be observed to securely use stream ciphers.
It is not permissible to perform multiple encryptions using the same
key stream.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<blowfish(3)|blowfish(3)>, L<des(3)|des(3)>, L<rc2(3)|rc2(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

ARC4_set_key() and ARC4() are available in all versions of SSLeay and OpenSSL.

=cut
